Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
Psalms division 72 the 72nd chapter of the book of Psalms and I want to look at one verse here with the help of the Lord this morning and give you just a simple little thought and what the Lord has given us this week and studying this week.
I'm working on a new series I thought about starting today but I couldn't get no liberty on that so I'll give you a little thought here out of Psalm 72 I was thinking this week and studying it's been a
long time since I preached out of the Psalms.
And years ago I used to preach a lot out of Psalms, but recently I've not preached hardly any at all out of Psalms.
And I want to give you just one simple verse, and then I'll give you the thought.
Let's stand in honor and reference to the reading of God's word.
Psalms 72, Psalm 72, and I want to look in verse number 18.
Psalm 72, verse number 18.
The Bible said this,
it be the Lord God.
the God of Israel, who only do with wondrous things.
Again, let's look at that.
Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel.
Now know what he says, who only do with wondrous things.
You know what the Psalm said about God?
He said that God only does wonderful things.
That's all God knows how to do is wonderful things.
I want to preach to you on this.
I'm this morning for a little while.
Worship born out of wonder.
When we see the wonderful words of God, it should cause us to worship Him for who He is.
Can I say this to you?
I don't worship God for what He has done.
I worship God for who He is.
because there is times that I do not understand why God does what He does.
However, He is still God and He is still worthy of our worship today, amen.
Father, I pray that over the next few minutes, God that you would help us, Lord that you'd breathe on us, Father, I pray God that your will and way would be done and we'll give you glory and honor in Jesus' name
Amen, and amen, you can be seated today.
You know, I want to preach to you just a little while.
On worship born out of wonder.
We know that God does great things, but beyond that, God does wonderful things.
I thought about what Jeremiah said in chapter 233.
He said, yes, call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou
know it's not.
Mary said this in Luke chapter number one in verse 49, for he that is mighty hath done to me great things.
And when we think about God today, I think that we would all have to say that he is a wonderful God today.
He is a marvelous God today.
Our text speaks of how God does great and mighty things.
It says that
Only he only doeth wondrous things.
The word wondrous means this.
It means to be marvelous, to be wonderful, to be surpassing, to be extraordinary, separate by distinguishing acts.
It means this, to do extraordinary or hard and difficult things, to make wondrously and to make wonderful.
When we look at God today, can I just say that is who he is?
To be marvelous, he is marvelous.
To be wonderful, he is wonderful.
To be surpassing, there is none like him.
You'll never find nobody else like God today.
To be extraordinary.
Well, that's him today, hey man.
He is an extraordinary God today.
God today.
He does surpass all others today when we think about him.
The fact is whenever we look at God, the only thing God can do is wonderful things and wondrous things.
What did he say?
The Psalmist said, who only do with wondrous things.
What we must come to the conclusion of is the Bible is right when he says his ways are not our ways and his thoughts are not our thoughts.
There is some things that God allows to go on
and that God does that I may not understand but that does not change that he is a wonderful God today and everything that he does is a wondrous today according to the Bible.
I want to show you two or three things this morning and we'll go home on worship that is born out of wonder.
Worship that is born out of wonder.
Can I say this to you again?
We don't worship God because of our circumstances.
We don't necessarily worship God just because of what he's done for us.
Yes, thank God that he saved me.
Everybody ought to holler a man if you're saved today.
Thank God that he did save me.
But that's not necessarily the reason that I worship him.
I worship him because he's God.
He is from everlasting to everlasting.
He's never made a mistake and he never will.
And the only thing God can do is wonderful things.
Let me show you two or three things about worship born out of wonder.
Number one, I want you to see adoration, the adoration that God deserves.
The adoration that God deserves.
Note again our text, verse number 18.
The Bible said, blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel.
The psalmist begins with the word blessed.
In this word we find an expression of adoration.
That word adoration simply means this.
It's the act of paying honors to a divine being.
And you know what the psalmist is saying?
He's saying this, my adoration, me paying honors to a divine being.
Who is that?
It is God today.
And he's saying there is an adoration that God deserves
today.
He deserves our praise.
He deserves our worship.
He deserves us doing that.
In this word, blessed, we know three things quickly and we'll move on.
I would say to us in this adoration that God deserves today and and let me just say to us, he does deserve it.
I'm gonna say it again.
He does deserve it.
He does deserve us praising Him.
He does deserve us giving Him glory.
He does deserve us giving thanks, giving back to Him.
He deserves that today.
If there's anybody that deserves that, it is the God of glory today.
And there is the adoration that He deserves.
Well, I want you to see right here in this psalm,
He said, blessed be the Lord God.
The adoration, there's an attitude of adoration.
There is an attitude of adoration.
The Word speaks of how one feels about God.
The word describes a heart that is filled with adoration.
This is not a person with a cold heart toward a cold heart towards the things of God or with no room for God in their heart.
This is a person who is filled with appreciation and adoration for God, how he feels about God and how we feel about God is reflected in our attitude towards God.
how we feel about Him.
It's reflected in our attitude, but not just our attitude, and I'll say more about this in just a minute, but it's reflected in our actions towards God.
Our attitude today, our attitude, A.W.
Tozer said this.
He said, what comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us.
The history of mankind will show that no people has ever risen above how they view and man's spiritual history will positively demonstrate that no religion has ever been greater than the God of this Bible.
Worship depends on how high or how low your thoughts are towards an almighty God.
What is he saying?
He's saying this, our attitude of
our attitude of worship today, our attitude towards God.
It should be that of utmost respect and worship to Him.
The adoration, the attitude of adoration, think about this, it's obvious in Psalm 72 that the psalmist says only high thoughts of God.
He cries out, bless it.
He possesses an attitude of adoration for God.
He sees God as a great and glorious God.
He thinks of God as mighty and marvelous in all that he is and all that he has done and all that he will do.
And his attitude brings him to adoration to God, to praising God, to thanking God.
He is the attitude of adoration.
Not only do I see an attitude of adoration,
But I want you to see this.
I see an action of adoration.
Our action of adoration, an adoration that God deserves today.
He deserves our attitude of adoration, but he deserves our action of adoration.
Our action of it.
What did he say?
He said, bless it.
It means this whenever you study it out.
It means to kneel, to bless, to salute.
when he feels in his heart or what he feels in his heart is exemplified as he kneels before an holy God.
I would say it this way.
The same ideal is found in Psalms 95, verse number six, where the Bible said this, oh, come, let us worship and bow down.
Let us kneel before the Lord our maker.
The word Neil is the same word translated as blessed in Psalm 72, 18.
when the psalmist cries, blessed in Psalm 72, 18, when he cries out, blessed be the Lord God.
I can only imagine that the psalmist is probably on his knees in a place with his hands raised to the heavens.
And he's saying, Lord, you are good as I bow in your presence as I adore you.
I'm saying you're good.
His actions of it, his actions.
I thought about this.
Well, what about first Kings chapter number eight verse number 54 where the Bible says of.
Solomon that he arose from before the altar of the Lord from kneeling on his knees with his hand spread up to the heaven Elijah in first Kings chapter number 18 where the Bible says he cast himself down upon the earth and put his face between his knees whichever is the case when we come to this psalm I really do believe that the psalm is about on his knees saying Lord
You really are good.
Lord, you really have been good to me.
Again, studying more and in the Bible, kneeling is portrayed as a posture in prayer.
The Bible says in Psalm six, or not Psalm six, but Daniel, chapter number six, that Daniel kneeled upon his knees three times a day in prayer.
You also see Paul in Acts chapter number 20, kneeling down and praying with Ephesians elders.
If you go to Philippians chapter number two and verse number 10, the Bible said that at the name of Jesus, watch this, every knee should bow up things in heaven and things in earth and things
under the earth.
You know what that's saying?
It's saying this, that every knee, whether they're in heaven, whether they're on earth, or whether they're in hell, every knee one day will bow in adoration and declare him king of kings and lord of lord.
And the Psalmist says, my action of adoration is this, I'll not wait until that day that I bow in his presence in heaven, but I choose
right now because of who he is.
He is God.
He is the creator.
He is the lily of the valley.
He is the bright morning star.
He is the rose of Sharon.
He is the one that's altogether lovely.
And I choose in my action a violation to bow in his presence and say, you are God and you are good.
There's the action.
of adoration.
There's the attitude of adoration, but watch this.
There's the announcement of adoration.
True adoration does not remain hidden in the heart, and it does not stop with posture alone.
It finds its way to your lips.
It finds its way to your...
the announcement of adoration.
You know what the psalmist is doing?
He is announcing his adoration to Christ.
I'll ask you a question.
How many people this week did you tell how good God was to you?
Let me ask you another question.
How many people this week did you complain to about every little situation that you're going through in your life?
Hello, Tokyo.
So many times
I'm telling you, brother John, so many times we find ourselves over here on Complain Avenue.
Oh, poor, poor pitiful me.
I'm going through this and I'm going through that.
And the truth of the matter is this.
Thank God we're not in another country today.
Sheltered in a bomb shelter somewhere.
Wondering if we're ever even gonna make it out.
But here we sit in the presence of a holy God in a church packed out with a holy ghost moving in it.
I'm telling you what we ought to do.
We ought to make an announcement of adoration.
God, I just want to say you have been good.
And I bless your name for that.
There's the announcement of adoration.
He begins to tell people God's good.
God's good.
You don't know where I'm at.
You don't know the storm that I'm in.
God's good.
Amen.
Oh, yes.
I said he's good.
Think about this, the announcement of adoration.
When the Psalmist says, bless be the Lord God, he is not only kneeling, he is declaring.
He's not just kneeling, he's declaring.
Worship born out of wonder will always produce a verbal praise.
Worship born out of wonder will always produce, will always produce a verbal praise.
The Bible said this in Psalms 34-1.
How will bless the Lord at all times.
His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
All times.
The thing about this, there's the praise and his praise or his worship is intentional.
He said, I will bless.
It's intentional.
Can I just ask you a question now?
I'm not for emotionalism.
I'm not for trying to
build something up and make something happen.
Me and my sister had a long conversation this morning about that on the fall.
I'm not about that, but I want to ask you this question.
How many come to church today with all intentions of getting in on it?
How many come to church today with all intentions?
If the choir got good, you's going to raise your hand and say amen.
If a special singing got good, you's going to raise your hand and say amen.
that if the preaching got good, you was going to raise your hand and say amen.
Well, preachers, I just don't worship that one.
Well, how do you worship?
Because I'm going to tell you something.
If your worship is right, there'll be actions
There'll be actions of it.
It's scriptural.
And can I say this to ya?
If your worship is right, there'll be an announcement of it.
I'm telling you every once in a while, I go to church and here's what I pray.
God help me to get in on it.
God if the singing gets good, help me to raise my hand and holler amen.
I'm not hollering amen up to the one that's singing.
I'm not hollering amen up to the one that's preaching.
But I tell you what I am a holler name and who is the king of kings and the Lord of lords that's blessed me Hadn't been better to me than I've ever deserved.
Hey, there he is Hey a praise that should be and his praise was intentional in some sir.
He was intentional It wasn't you've heard me say this before we walked into Northwood one night Back when they had the the big camp meeting and daddy was moderating it made her Jenkins
He had just bought Brother Williams a brand new pair of Stacey Adams dress shoes.
We got out and started across the parking lot and made her sort of going like this.
I said, son, you don't moonwalk at church.
He said, I'm scuffing my shoes.
I said, why are you scuffing your shoes?
He said they slick.
I said, OK.
Are you planning on running in the church or something?
And here's what he said.
Yep.
I said, do what?
He said, yep.
You know what he was saying?
He was saying this.
I'm going to have an intentional praise.
Whether anybody else says amen.
Whether anybody else hollers glory.
Whether anybody else raises a hand, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do when I go down the house of God.
Hey, I'm gonna raise a hand and I'm gonna say, Hey man, there will be an announcement of my adoration to him.
Oh yes, that praise is intentional, but that praise is continual in Psalms 34.
What did he say at all times?
You know what that means at all times?
at all times, when it's good, amen.
When it's bad, amen.
Y'all, one of my favorite movies of all times, it's not the Lion King.
I love a Conan Matata, though.
But it's not my favorite, you know, one of my favorite movies of all times, but Danny is facing the giants.
I love, that's the best movie they've ever put out.
I love facing the Giants.
I just love it.
Could care less about football.
I don't know much about it.
It looks to me like a bunch of guys got a piece of pig running around and knocking each other's brains out.
But hey, have at it, man.
I like to see somebody get their brains knocked out every once in a while.
Just being honest, I mean, nothing like a good fight.
Especially two women, man.
They pull each other's hair and scream and holler.
What am I preaching about?
I'm talking about praising God.
Come back here a minute.
One of my favorite movies is facing the giants.
And that's where they all get right with God.
They're in the huddle there or they're in the, I don't guess it's the clubhouse.
What's that place called where y'all go to?
Is it the clubhouse?
The fieldhouse, the fieldhouse.
They're all in the fieldhouse.
And Brock steps up and he says this, here's what we will do.
We're gonna thank Him if we win and we're gonna thank Him if we lose.
We're gonna praise Him if we win and we're gonna praise Him if we lose.
Hear me, our praise should be continually.
Our announcement of adoration should be continually.
I will praise Him if I win or if I lose.
I remember, and I'm gonna move on.
I remember,
Right before I took the church, I went and sat down with Brother Easter.
And Miss Summer's grandfather, I went and sat down with him.
We were talking about me coming to the church.
And initially, I had agreed to come be his assistant and work hand in hand with him.
And a lot of people don't know that, but I did.
And then after I agreed to do that, he said, no preacher.
He said, I think you need to take the church.
He said, I just wanted to see how much of a servant you would be if you was willing to come work with me.
And he said, once I sing that, I believe you're the right person for the church.
And I said, well, you know, brother Easter, I'm praying for you.
And I know I seen Russ Scottie a while ago.
Where's Russ Scottie?
There he is.
You usually over here or over there.
You're out there.
I mean, what's wrong with you today?
And Russ Scottie, it's Russ Scottie's grandfather too.
And brother Landon's here somewhere.
Unless he went outside to smoke.
There he is.
His great grandfather.
But here's what he said.
I told him, I'm praying for you.
And I'm praying that God will heal you.
And here's what he said.
Some of y'all probably heard him make this statement.
He looked at me, and he was laying in the bed there, and he said, I just want you to know something.
I said, what's that?
He said, I'm a winner, either way.
He said, you know what he was saying?
Laying in a bed the last days of his life, dying with Lou Garrett's disease.
You know what he was saying?
He was saying this.
I'll praise him continually.
no matter where I'm at.
Boy, may God help us no matter where we're at church, no matter what we're going through.
May our worship be continually.
His praise was intentional in Psalm 341.
His praise was continual.
Look at this.
His praise was vocal.
What he's saying in Psalm 341, I will bless the Lord at all times.
His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
You know, some people,
They go to church, but you wonder if they ever really thank God, because you never hear nothing out of them.
So preacher, you're saying we're all supposed to be jumping up screaming and hollering, amen?
That's not what I'm saying, but I'm going to say this to you.
Bible said, let the redeemed of the Lord say so.
And the Psalmist is saying, man, I will announce my adoration to him.
Adoration that never finds expression is not biblical worship.
the writer of Hebrews said this, listen, by him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually.
That is the fruit of our lips given thanks to his name.
Praise is called a sacrifice because sometimes we don't feel like praising, but wonder reminds us he is still worthy of our praise.
Can I just say that again?
Praise is called a sacrifice because sometimes we don't feel like praising, but the wonder of who he is reminds us that he is still worthy of our praise.
Notice how the Psalmist continues in Psalm 72.
Look in verse number 19.
And blessed be his glorious name forever and let the whole earth
be filled with his glory, amen.
And amen.
He moves from wonder who only doeth wondrous things.
Miss Tanya, will you come start playing softly?
He moves from wonder who only does wondrous things to worship, blessed be the Lord, to witness and let the whole earth be filled with his glory.
You know the way he does that?
With his announcement.
of adoration with his announcement of adoration worship that starts in wonder will always end in a witness worship that starts in wonder will always end in a witness you know many times that's just the first point if you come back tonight I'll finish the rest of that verse the adoration that God deserves
Many times we want to tell everybody about how big our mountain is.
Many times we want to tell everybody about how dark our day is and about everything that we're going through.
And what we don't tell them is about how good our God is.
Many times, don't fall out with me, okay?
But many times, depression is a result of selfishness because we focus on everything that's going wrong instead of one that does all things right.
And we began to wallow in our self pity.
And our adoration towards Him is out of place.
Worship born out of wonder.
How is it?
Because there's the adoration that God deserves.
Hey listen, all He can do is good things.
Did you hear what I just said?
I got Bible to back it up.
That's all He can do.
He don't know how to do nothing else but good things.
You say what?
If all he can do is good things?
Why did Lot's wife turn to a pillar of salt?
Because she turned back and then do what he said do.
That wasn't God's fault.
That was her fault.
And a lot of things that we blame on God, God didn't have nothing to do with.
It was your rebellion
to God that calls that.
Now, in the midst of your rebellion to God, if you will turn to God, He'll forgive you for it.
I'm telling you, the only thing God can do is good things.
That's it.
And we think about somebody that all He can do is good things.
You know what it should cause us to do?
Follow on an E before Him and say, bless
is the Lord God.
He really is good.
Can I just say that again?
How long has it been since you just thanked him for who he is?
Since you just thanked him for who he is?
Since you went to an altar and didn't, don't get mad at me but sometimes really
what we need is a little bit of tough love, Brother Lloyd.
I'm that way.
We didn't go to the altar and belly ache over everything that was wrong.
We just went to the altar and said, God help me to see you for who you are.
God help me to get my eyes focused on you for who you are.
God help me to have a fresh look at Calvary and the love that you showed to me.
And I'm gonna tell you what, you get to looking at Him.
It won't be long
Your attitude will change.
Your actions will change.
There'll be a vocal expression of praise to Him.